Add document page for DSPy optimizer tracking (#15143)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/docs/llms/dspy/optimizer.mdx

import { APILink } from "@site/src/components/APILink";

# DSPy Optimizer Tracking

A [DSPy optimizer](https://dspy.ai/learn/optimization/optimizers/) is an algorithm that tunes the parameters of a DSPy program (i.e., the prompts and/or the LM weights) to maximize the metrics you specify.

> Historically optimizers have following challenges due to its black box nature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, optimizers have the following challenges due to its black box nature:
```

1. **Parameters and Score of individual trial**: Program parameters (e.g. proposed instructions and selected demonstrations) and performance of each trial during optimization are not saved. 
2. **Intermediate Artifacts**: Prompts and model responses for the intermediate programs are not available. While some of them are printed out, there is no easy way to store the information in a structured manner.
3. **Optimization Trajectory**: It is hard to understand the overview of the optimization trajectory from log texts (e.g. score progress over time).

The MLflow DSPy flavor provides a convenient way to automatically track the optimization process and results. This allows you to analyze the optimization process and results more efficiently.

> ## Enable Autologging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Enable Autologging
```

let's align the header level to fix the side bar

Author: Let me change other parts into "##" since # is not shown in the sidenav

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Optimization</td>
            <td>`false`</td>
            <td>`log_compile`</td>
            <td>If set to `True`, a MLflow run is created for each `Teleprompter.compile` call, and metrics and artifacts for the optimization are logged.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Evaluation</td>
            <td>`false`</td>
            <td>`log_evals`</td>
            <td>If set to `True`, a MLflow run is created for each `Evaluation.__call__` call, and metrics and artifacts for the evaluation are logged.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

# Example Code of DSPy Optimizer Tracking

```python
import dspy
from dspy.datasets.gsm8k import GSM8K, gsm8k_metric
import mlflow

# Enabling tracing for DSPy
mlflow.dspy.autolog(log_compiles=True, log_evals=True, log_traces_from_compile=True)

# Optional: Set a tracking URI and an experiment
mlflow.set_tracking_uri("http://localhost:5000")
mlflow.set_experiment("DSPy")

lm = dspy.LM(model="openai/gpt-3.5-turbo", max_tokens=250)
dspy.configure(lm=lm)

> gms8k = GSM8K()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gsm8k = GSM8K()
```

trainset, devset = gms8k.train, gms8k.dev[:50]

class CoT(dspy.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.prog = dspy.ChainOfThought("question -> answer")

    def forward(self, question):
        return self.prog(question=question)

program = CoT()

# define a teleprompter
teleprompter = dspy.teleprompt.MIPROv2(

>     metric=gsm8k_metric,

Author: It's imported above `from dspy.datasets.gsm8k import GSM8K, gsm8k_metric`

    auto="light",
)
# run the optimizer
optimized_program = teleprompter.compile(
    program,
    trainset=trainset,
    max_bootstrapped_demos=3,
    max_labeled_demos=4,
    requires_permission_to_run=False,
)
```

# What are logged?
MLflow optimizer tracking logs the following information:
- **Optimizer Parameters**: The hyper parameters of the optimizer (e.g. number of demonstrates).
- **Optimized Program**: MLflow automatically saves the states of the optimized program as a json artifact.
- **Datasets**: The train and evaluation datasets used in the optimization.
- **Overall Progression of Metric**: The progression of the metric over time is captured as step-wise metrics of a compile run.
- **Intermediate Program States and Metric**: The states of the program and the performance metric at each evaluation are captured in an evaluation run.
- **Traces**: The traces of each intermediate program are captured in an evaluation run.

> When both `log_compile` and `log_evals` are set to `True`, MLflow creates a run for `Teleprompter.compile` with child runs for `Evaluation.__call__` calls. 

Reviewer: How is the parent Run name determined? "gpt-3.5-turbo" sounds a bit out of place.

Author: Oh, it's renamed manually for another reason. It's an auto-generated name by default like other integration

> When both `log_compile` and `log_evals` are set to `True`, MLflow creates a run for `Teleprompter.compile` with child runs for `Evaluation.__call__` calls. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When both `log_compiles` and `log_evals` are set to `True`, MLflow creates a run for `Teleprompter.compile` with child runs for `Evaluate.__call__` calls. 
```

> In the MLflow UI, they are displayed hierarchically as shown below:

Reviewer: Can you add a brief explanation about full vs minibatch Runs?
